# 3.1: Connecting-to-the-Temporal-UI

In our last exercise we successfully stood-up a Temporal service on our local Kubernetes cluster and verified that the Temporal services and our persistence+Visibility stores were healthy. That's fine and good, but that doesn't do much for us besides letting us know we are wasting compute.. Let's change that by interacting with the web component. 

Begin by creating a new terminal window/tab, if you setup the btw alias before run it now, otherwise ensure you set your KUBECONFIG environment variable. Next we will port forward the my-temporal-web compontent to localhost:8080

```bash
$ kubectl port-forward deployment/my-temporal-web 8080:8080
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
```

You should now be able to open a tab in the browser of your choice (firefox is the right choice) and navigate to `localhost:8080`, it should only take a moment before you see the Temporal UI. 

Seeing as we haven't set anything up yet the UI will be showing the barebones information that it has. Poke around a bit, don't worry if you see a 500 error, we'll be simulating load soon enough which will fix that issue. 

Back in your terminal window also notice the new logs:
```bash
Handling connection for 8080
```

This illustrates that we are infact connecting to our Temporal service.

## Exercise conclusion
This is simple, we know but it's important that each of the parts of the system are clearly understood as it will make the next sections much easier to navigate through and understand. For now, we have connected to our Temporal UI, next [let's create a namespace](./3.2.Creating-a-test-namespace-and-workflow-via-Temporal-CLI-or-UI.md).

