# 3.2: Creating-a-test-namespace-and-workflow-via-Temporal-CLI-or-UI

In exercise [1.1 we installed the Temporal CLI](../1.Preparing-Your-Environment/1.1.Installing-prerequisites.md), now it's time we use it. 

Begin by creating a new terminal window/tab, if you setup the btw alias before run it now, otherwise ensure you set your KUBECONFIG environment variable. Next we will port forward the my-temporal-frontend compontent to localhost:7233


```bash
$ kubectl port-forward deployment/my-temporal-frontend 7233:7233
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:7233 -> 7233
Forwarding from [::1]:7233 -> 7233
```


The Temporal CLI can be used to do a lot of things, starting workflows, managing workers and performing admin are just some of the actions that can be taken. In later exercises we will use the workflow and worker creation commands, but for now let's use the operator option to perform admin activities.

First let's understand what commands we have access to;
```bash
$ temporal operator
Available Commands:
  cluster          Manage a Temporal Cluster
  namespace        Namespace operations
  nexus            Commands for managing Nexus resources
  search-attribute Search Attribute operations
  ```

Take some time and familiarize yourself with the `temporal operator cluster` and `temporal operator namespace` command options.

> [!TIP]
> If anything goes wrong and you need to restart simply run `helm uninstall my-temporal` and then restart the service from scratch

Finish this exercise by creating the **default** namespace.
```bash
$ temporal operator namespace create -n default
Namespace default successfully registered.
```

## Exercise conclusion
And with that the easy part of our journey is complete. In our next exercise things get much more interesting as we setup [Observability and Monitoring](../4.Observability-and-Monitoring/README.md) which prepares us for load simulation!

