# 4.1: Adding monitoring tools: Prometheus and Grafana

Over the last few exercises we've brought our Temporal server up using the kubernetes package manager, Helm, connected to it from the web UI and have created a namespace using the temporal CLI. By all rights, we now have a development ready Temporal cluster that our business could use, but to be production ready we still have a ways to go. It's common for businesses to get this far, begin building workflows on Temporal, recognize the value and scale to quickly!

To begin with, let's bring Prometheus and Grafana up by updating our Helm install:
```bash
helm upgrade \
    --install \
    my-temporal temporalio/temporal \
    --set server.replicaCount=1 \
    --set cassandra.config.cluster_size=1 \
    --set elasticsearch.replicas=1 \
    --set prometheus.enabled=true \
    --set grafana.enabled=true \
    --timeout 15m
```

We will see that the revision of our deployment has increased by 1 and the status should be **deployed**:
```bash
...
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 2
...
```

If you're still watching your pods with `watch kubectl get pods` you should also see a few new pods start initializing. 
```bash
my-temporal-alertmanager-0
my-temporal-grafana-b8b59bf44-q5nbz
my-temporal-kube-state-metrics-796d7c8d65-xcsth
my-temporal-prometheus-node-exporter-fvpkz
my-temporal-prometheus-pushgateway-d7d4c6dc5-px9bd
my-temporal-prometheus-server-6b7b7ddd45-cgwvb
my-temporal-schema-2-rbbrm
```

There is a lot going on, so while we wait let's break down each part and what they are doing. 

1. my-temporal-alertmanager-0 is the [prometheus altertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/) which is responsible for, you guessed it managing alerts
2. my-temporal-grafana will provide us a means of creating dashboards to visualize our metrics
3. my-temporal-kube-state-metrics is a service that listens to the Kubernets API and generates metrics about the state of objects
4. my-temporal-prometheus-node-exporter is a service that collects and exposes kubernetes low level metrics such as CPU and Mem
5. my-temporal-prometheus-pushgateway is a service that exposes metrics for ephemeral and batch jobs
6. my-temporal-prometheus-server is our monitoriing and alerting tool
7. my-temporal-schema-2 is a job that runs and preps our out-of-the-box grafana dashboards


Now that everything is stable, like our webUI and frontend let's expose our Grafana instance. In a new terminal window / tab run the following:
```bash
kubectl port-forward deployment/my-temporal-grafana 3000:3000
```

In a new terminal window / tab run the following:
```bash
kubectl get secret my-temporal-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode
```

Copy everything up to the `%` character. To login into your Grafana dashboard open a new browser, navigate to the URL `localhost:3000`, enter the username as **admin** and the password as what you copied from the above.


## Kube state metrics
Let's also ensure that we have cluster metrics for our local kubernetes cluster

```
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts;
helm upgrade \
    --install \
    kube-state-metrics prometheus-community/kube-state-metrics;
```

This will be used by the Bitovi Expanded Dashboard that we'll setup next.