# 5.1: Using Omes for load simulation

A major hurdle for operators is the ability to uncover whether a system is working at peak efficiency. For small scale systems this can be mostly ignored, but for systems that are crucial for high-priority operations, the need for quantitative measurements that a system is working within reasonable boundaries is required. Load simulation when combined with metric visualization is a means of bench-marking the capacity of a system in a controlled environment.

Temporal offers a simple out-of-the-box load generator for Temporal called Omes. It’s simple to use and comes with standardized test scenarios that can be used or built upon.

The tests are flexible, with the ability to modify the duration, SDK used and load generated through command line flags however they should be expanded upon for live usage when the Temporal operator team is ready to take their operational excellence to the next level.

**Downloading Omes:** We'll begin by cloning Omes to our local machine. `git clone https://github.com/temporalio/omes.git`

## Simulate steady load
This scenario steadily creates a specific, user-defined rate of workflow state transitions per second, simulating a controlled, constant workflow load on the cluster to measure sustained throughput.

This should be considered the baseline test as to establish the max throughput of a system before moving on to the other more niche scenarios. If you are only running a single simulation, this is the simulation you would want to use.

This test performs the same operations as benchmark-workers however as of right now it is not containerized.

## Throughput Stress
We're going to put a great deal of stress on out system now by adding significant load with the throughput stress test.

In order to perform this test we will need to open two terminal windows/tabs and perform the following:


**Begin by starting a worker**
This worker will use our local machine, so any cluster stress will be exclusively from the Temporal Service and not our worker. 

```bash
go run ./cmd run-worker --scenario throughput_stress --run-id throughput_stress_test --language go
```

**Create the tests**

```bash
go run ./cmd run-scenario --scenario throughput_stress --max-iterations-per-second=1000 --run-id throughput_stress_test &>> ../logs/throughput_stress.log
```


## After you're done testing, clean the test up
```bash
go run ./cmd cleanup-scenario --scenario throughput_stress --run-id throughput_stress_test
```




