# Exercise 1.1: Installing prerequisites (Docker, kind, kubectl)
It is highly recommend that you use package managers where possible to install and manage the following CLIs. For Mac users that is *brew*, for Windows that's *Chocolatey* and Debian and Ubuntu users that's *apt*. 

## Docker
[Install Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/)

Docker is a software platform that allows you to build, test, and deploy applications quickly

#### Verify the install
Run the following command:
```bash
$ docker version
```

The versions should be at minimum or above:
```bash
Client:
 Version:           28.2.2
 ...
Server: Docker Desktop 4.42.1 (196648)
 Engine:
  Version:          28.2.2
```



## Kubectl and Kind
[Install Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
<br/>
[Install Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/)

The Kubernetes command-line tool, kubectl, allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. Kind lets you run Kubernetes on your local computer.


#### Verify the kubectl install
Run the following command:
```bash
$ kubectl version --client
```

The versions should be within at least 1 minor version of the kubernetes cluster, but preferably should be at minimum or above the following versions:
```bash
Client Version: v1.33.0
Kustomize Version: v5.6.0
```

#### Verify the kind install
```bash
$ kind version
```

The versions should be at minimum or above:
```bash
kind v0.29.0 go1.24.3 ...
```

## Helm
[Install Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. It will simplify our deployments during the workshop, however, in production environments it's advisible to take more control over your deployment by manually setting up the infrastructure and configuration separately.

#### Verify the Helm install
```bash
$ helm version
``` 

The versions should be at minimum or above:
```bash
version.BuildInfo{Version:"v3.18.3", GitCommit:"6838ebcf265a3842d1433956e8a622e3290cf324", GitTreeState:"clean", GoVersion:"go1.24.4"}
```

## Temporal CLI
[Install Temporal CLI](https://docs.temporal.io/)

The Temporal CLI enables us to perform admin actions on our Temporal Server. Of course, there are other ways of doing so, like with the GoSDK, but since we don't want to spend an afternoon writing a custom CLI, this provides the functionality that we need in this workshop. There are reasons a business might create their own custom admin CLI though, specifically, if the business wants extremely strong authorization for the admin portal. That is beyond the scope of this class and isn't recommended unless a business use-case well understood and justified.

The versions should be at minimum or above:
```bash
temporal version 1.3.0 (Server 1.27.1, UI 2.36.0)
```

## tctl CLI
[Install tctl CLI](https://docs.temporal.io/tctl-v1)

The Temporal tctl CLI enables us to perform admin actions on our Temporal Server. Of course, there are other ways of doing so, like with the GoSDK, but since we don't want to spend an afternoon writing a custom CLI, this provides the functionality that we need in this workshop. There are reasons a business might create their own custom admin CLI though, specifically, if the business wants extremely strong authorization for the admin portal. That is beyond the scope of this class and isn't recommended unless a business use-case well understood and justified.

The versions should be at minimum or above:
```bash
temporal version 1.3.0 (Server 1.27.1, UI 2.36.0)
```

## Golang
[Install Golang](https://go.dev/doc/install)

Golang is a powerful programming language. We need it in order to execute the load simulation section.

The version should be at minimum or above:
```mod
go 1.24.2
```






## Exercise conclusion
You've now installed the CLIs that we will use during the Temporal self-hosted workshop. 

Once you're done, move on to the [next exercise](./1.2.Setting-up-a-kind-Kubernetes-cluster.md). 
