# Exercise 1.3: Verifying your cluster and basic kubectl commands

By default, the cluster access configuration is stored in `${HOME}/.kube/config` if $KUBECONFIG environment variable is not set. In the previous section we set our KUBECONFIG environment variable to `~/.kube/temporal-workshop-2025`. Let's begin by insuring that the file was created and the configuration was written.

```bash
$ cat ~/.kube/temporal-workshop-2025 | grep current-context:
current-context: kind-temporal-workshop-2025 # This indicates that our kubeconfig has been properly written and prepared
```

With our KUBECONFIG environment variable already set and our cli commands installed we should be ready to interact with our self hosted cluster!

```bash
$ kubectl get namespaces
NAME                 STATUS   AGE
default              Active   4m36s
kube-node-lease      Active   4m36s
kube-public          Active   4m36s
kube-system          Active   4m36s
local-path-storage   Active   4m33s
```


**Congratulations**, you've successfully created a local Kubernetes cluster using kind and prepared your local environment to interact with it. 

We will need to open several tabs as we go through this workshop, because of this it is recommended that you perform one last command to ease later steps.

```bash
# If using zsh
$ echo "# Bitovi Temporal Workshop 2025\nalias btw=\"export KUBECONFIG=~/.kube/temporal-workshop-2025; echo 'Using local Temporal Workshop 2025 config'\"" > ~/.zshrc
$ source ~/.zshrc

# If using bash
$ echo "# Bitovi Temporal Workshop 2025\nalias btw=\"export KUBECONFIG=~/.kube/temporal-workshop-2025; echo 'Using local Temporal Workshop 2025 config'\"" > ~/.bashrc
$ source ~/.bashrc
```

Now whenever you open a new terminal window/tab you can simply run `btw` and have a ready environment for this workshop. 

## Exercise conclusion
We've verified that we have access to our local Kubernetes cluster using kubectl and have optionally setup an alias to make managing additional terminal windows easy.

When you're ready move on to the next exercise: [Deploying Temporal](../2.Deploying-Temporal/README.md).

> [!NOTE]
> Remember to delete the alias once the workshop is complete!